Create rule S6874: Variable names should comply with a naming convention (#3557)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6874/kubernetes/rule.adoc

== Why is this an issue?
Adhering to a naming convention is crucial for maintaining readability and consistency in code. It ensures that code is easy to read and understand, which is vital for maintaining and debugging the code in the future. When variable names in Helm charts do not follow the camelCase convention, it can lead to several issues:

1. **Readability**: Inconsistent naming conventions can make the code harder to read. Developers often expect variables to be in camelCase in Helm charts. When they encounter a variable that doesn't follow this convention, it can disrupt their reading flow, making it harder to understand the code.
2. **Maintainability**: Not following accepted conventions can introduce inconsistent naming, especially when multiple developers work on the same project, leading to technical debt. If a developer needs to update the code, they might have to spend extra time understanding the purpose of each variable. This can lead to slower updates and a higher chance of introducing bugs.

> 3. **Collaboration**: Inconsistent naming conventions can make it harder for developers to collaborate. If a developer is working on a Helm chart that doesn't follow the camelCase convention, they might have to spend extra time understanding the purpose of each variable. This can lead to slower updates and a higher chance of introducing bugs.

Reviewer: I would drop the `Collaboration` part, as it's mostly a duplicate for `maintainability`.

1. **Readability**: Inconsistent naming conventions can make the code harder to read. Developers often expect variables to be in camelCase in Helm charts. When they encounter a variable that doesn't follow this convention, it can disrupt their reading flow, making it harder to understand the code.
2. **Maintainability**: Inconsistent naming conventions can make the code harder to maintain. If a developer needs to update the code, they might have to spend extra time understanding the purpose of each variable. This can lead to slower updates and a higher chance of introducing bugs.
3. **Collaboration**: Inconsistent naming conventions can make it harder for developers to collaborate. If a developer is working on a Helm chart that doesn't follow the camelCase convention, they might have to spend extra time understanding the purpose of each variable. This can lead to slower updates and a higher chance of introducing bugs.

> By adhering to the camelCase naming convention, these issues can be avoided and Helm charts will be more efficient and easier to work with.

Reviewer: Just ideas:
You could use this: `Not following accepted conventions can introduce inconsistent naming, especially when multiple developers work on the same project, leading to technical debt.`, to have some variation.
You could use this: `The helm documentation establishes a naming convention that consists of camel-cased names with a leading lowercase letter.`,  to reference the documentation.

== How to fix it

> Fixing this issue involves renaming the variables in the Helm chart to follow the camelCase convention.

Reviewer: This is not direct enough for me.
I would prefer something like: `Change the variable's name to adhere to the naming conventions. Names should be camel-cased and start with a lowercase letter, for example, myVariable.` (Formatting myVariable was not possible in this comment)

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,text,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
{{- $my_Variable := .Values.myVariableValue -}} # Noncompliant
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,text,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
{{- $myVariable := .Values.myVariableValue -}}

> ----

Reviewer: Ah my bad, I mixed up the variable names with the values properties.

> == Why is this an issue?

Reviewer 2: The text in "Why is this an issue" explains what --- is typically used for. Do you mean to separate it from this section?

> == Why is this an issue?

Reviewer: When you created the PR there is this first line: `FIXME: add a description`. This should be very brief and in this case explain what the three dashes do. It should be above `Why is this an issue?`

== Why is this an issue?
Adhering to a naming convention is crucial for maintaining readability and consistency in code. It ensures that code is easy to read and understand, which is vital for maintaining and debugging the code in the future. When variable names in Helm charts do not follow the camelCase convention, it can lead to several issues:

1. **Readability**: Inconsistent naming conventions can make the code harder to read. Developers often expect variables to be in camelCase in Helm charts. When they encounter a variable that doesn't follow this convention, it can disrupt their reading flow, making it harder to understand the code.
2. **Maintainability**: Not following accepted conventions can introduce inconsistent naming, especially when multiple developers work on the same project, leading to technical debt. If a developer needs to update the code, they might have to spend extra time understanding the purpose of each variable. This can lead to slower updates and a higher chance of introducing bugs.

By adhering to the camelCase naming convention, these issues can be avoided and Helm charts will be more efficient and easier to work with.

> == How to fix it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== How to fix it in Helm
```

Reviewer: You also have to add Helm as an allowed Framework in the file I showed you before.

Change the variable's name to adhere to the naming conventions. Names should be camelCased and start with a lowercase letter, for example, `myVariable`.

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,text,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
{{- $my_Variable := .Values.myVariableValue -}} # Noncompliant
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,text,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
{{- $myVariable := .Values.myVariableValue -}}
----

ifdef::env-github,rspecator-view[]

'''
== Implementation Specification
(visible only on this page)

=== Message

> Rename this variable to be compliant with the camelCase naming convention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rename XXX to be compliant with the camelCase naming convention.
```

=== Highlighting

> * Highlight the `$my_Variable` variable.

Reviewer: Highlight the non compliant variable.

----

[source,text,diff-id=2,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
toppings: |-
    {{- range $index-Nc, $topping := .Values.pizzaToppings }} # Noncompliant
      {{ $index-Nc }}: {{ $topping }}
    {{- end }}
----

[source,text,diff-id=3,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: {{ .Release.Name }}-configmap
data:
  myvalue: "Hello World"
  {{- range $KeyNc, $val := .Values.favorite }} # Noncompliant
  {{ $key }}: {{ $val | quote }}
  {{- end }}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,text,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
{{- $myVariable := .Values.myVariableValue -}}
----

[source,text,diff-id=2,diff-type=compliant]
----
toppings: |-
    {{- range $index, $topping := .Values.pizzaToppings }}
      {{ $index }}: {{ $topping }}
    {{- end }}
----

[source,text,diff-id=3,diff-type=compliant]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: {{ .Release.Name }}-configmap
data:
  myvalue: "Hello World"
  {{- range $key, $val := .Values.favorite }}
  {{ $key }}: {{ $val | quote }}
  {{- end }}
----

ifdef::env-github,rspecator-view[]

'''
== Implementation Specification
(visible only on this page)

=== Message

> Rename XXXX variable to be compliant with the camelCase naming convention.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rename XXX to be compliant with the camelCase naming convention.
```
